really just by serendipity where someone
brought me samples especially of early
wine and beer samples there was a woman
Virginia battler her husband teaches in
computer science here at Penn as well
who came to me with what turned out to
be the earliest wine vessel at the time
that when she brought us this beautiful
jar when the reddish deposit on the
inside from a site up in Iran in the
Zagros Mountains it just made sense that
we'd go ahead and try to see if we could
determine whether we had chemical
evidence that this was some of the
earliest wine and it did turn out to be
the case and then we just had one sample
after another coming to us after that we
subsequently looked for the earliest
barley beer from the same site in Iran
and we have projects now you know
stretching across eastern Turkey up into
the caucuses down into Lebanon still
looking at the DNA of some of the
earliest grape remains trying to
reconstruct where it was first
domesticated and how the wine culture
developed the oldest is the one from
China they found out that some of the
earliest pottery in the world is found
in China we now have our earliest
alcoholic beverage that's attested
chemically from a Neolithic site dating
back to about 7,000 BC in the Yellow
River Valley of China and its name is
Jia who and so here we have our
recreated beverage that was done with
dogfish Head brewery in Delaware which
there got a gold medal at the Great
American Beer Festival which is the
largest beer festival in the world this
is some of the residue from the drinking
set so inside the drinking set in the
tumulus of my toes or his father
guardias where it was residue and it was
excavated in 1957 by the Penn Museum
kept the samples and we start
doing the analysis and that's when we
determined that we had this very unusual
beverage for the mightest beverage it's
a combination of honey which is
fermented to Mead barley beer and grape
wine in a case of it's not to a job
instead of barley it was rice it's the
first use of grapes than any alcoholic
beverage known there are more species of
grapes in China than anywhere else in
the world and some of those have very
high amounts of sugar and so they would
have been something that the people
would be quite interested in sure and
alcohol are the two most sought-after
foods of humanity they would have you
know sought sought out these grapes and
put them into this beverage
you